We get that working chain where we add new post and output it here,
now it's time to make our first little optimisation.
As you might have seen, we are using posts in different places,
we got our list of stored posts here in the app component, we're outputting posts
obviously in the post-list.component and we're creating posts here now.
We ensure that they always have the same structure, title content, we do this when we create them and
we rely on this structure when outputting them,
we're referring to post title, post content, so mistaking the creation would not be that good.
Additionally here in the app component, we actually just say we have an array,
we could store anything in here,
we could store numbers in here and of course we are writing our application,
we probably don't mess up on purpose but if we're working in a team or if we're coming back to that
application after some weeks or months, we might have a hard time figuring out immediately which kind of
data we stored there,
was it post.content or post.description, so it makes sense to create some models,
so basically blueprints, contracts which define how a post looks like in our angular application. And
I'll do that in my posts folder,
I'll add a new file in there, not a folder, just a file and I'll name this post.model.ts, so the typescript
file and in there
I'll use another typescript feature, a so-called interface.
An interface is like a class that defines how an object looks like but it can't be instantiated,
it's more like a contract,
we can use it to create our own type, to force a certain object to look like this even though we can't
directly create it based on the interface and here I'll name this post.
Now we create it like that and in there what we can do is we can now define the fields and methods
this should have. And I want to have a field title which should be of type string assigned with a colon
and I want to have another field content which also be a string
and this ensures that we got a clear definition of how a post looks like
in our application. Now of course an interface in this file isn't that useful, so I add export to make it available
outside of this file too and now we can import this in all the files where we're using this,
so in the app component for example, we can now add an import, import post from and then simply go to posts and import it
from the post model file without the extension as always and now we can say that stored posts is an
array of posts by adding a colon here and then post square brackets.
This is typescript syntax for saying we got an array of posts in there and now if we would try to add
a three, we actually get an error that a three is not a post.
So this is pretty cool, we get a warning here,
we would also get a warning if we try to save this and compile this,
of course we get other places where we use the post too, in the post
list here, we got another list of posts, so here it's the same thing,
we import posts from go up one level, post model and then assign a type here and say we got a list of
posts.
And finally in the post create component, there too
I want to import my posts type so to say from post model,
whoops, post model like this
and then whenever we create a new post, this will actually be of type post.
We can be very clear about this and we can even be clear about the data we're going to emit,
event emitter is a so-called generic type which simply means we can pass additional information about
which type of data
it works with and the event emitter works with data in the sense of it emits data and that data will be
a post, so we can add lower than, greater than signs,
that is how you define such a generic type, post.
Now we're saying data we emit will be a post and now we're pretty safe because now if we ever try to emits
different data or do something else, we would get an error and therefore now we can come back to
that code and quickly see how a post looks like.